# pathfinderclasses
Homebrewed Pathfinder Classes

Hit Dice 1d8 per artificer level
Hit Points at 1st Level 8 + Constitution modifier
Hit Points at Higher Levels 1d8 (or 5) + Constitution modifier per artificer level

Proficiencies
Armor: Light Armor, medium armor, shields
Weapons: Simple Weapons
Saving Throws: Expert in Fortitude and Will
Perception: Trained in Perception
Skills: Trained in Crafting
           Trained in a number of skills equal to 3 plus your Intelligence                  Modifier
Level	Class Features
1	Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, specialization, artificer feats
2	Artificer feat, skill feat
3	General feat, skill increase
4	Artificer feat, skill feat
5	Ability boost, ancestry feat, skill increase, specialty feat
6	Artificer feat, skill feat
7	Flash of Genius, general feat, skill increase, iron will
8	Artificer feat, skill feat
9	Specialty feat, alertness, ancestry feat, skill increase
10	Ability boost, artificer feat, skill feat
11	General feat, juggernaut, field crafting, skill increase
12	Artificer feat, skill feat
13	Ancestry feat, specialization discovery, light armor expertise, skill increase, weapon specialization
14	Artificer feat, skill feat
15	Ability boosts, specialty feat, evasion, general feat, skill increase
16	Artificer feat, skill feat
17	Specialization Mastery, ancestry feat, master craftsman, skill increase
18	Artificer feat, skill feat
19	General feat, light armor mastery, skill increase
20	Ability boosts, artificer feat, skill feat

Class Features
You gain these abilities as an artificer. Abilities gained at higher levels list the levels at which you gain them next to the features’ names.

ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to the abilities provided by your class 1st level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and background, as described in Chapter 2.

INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that represent your basic training. These proficiencies are noted at the start of this class.

TINKERING
You’ve learned how to create extraordinary out of the mundane. To use this ability you must have artisan’s tools in hand.
-Craft ammunition you may craft arrows, bolts, or bullets granted you have the basic materials to do so. Amount crafted is the Xd8, where X is the number of points above a successful DC15 crafting check. 
-Repair damaged, but not destroyed objects. Such as damaged weapons, wagons, gates, etc.
SPECIALIZATIONS
Chose a specialization from either Armorer, Artillerist, or Weaponsmith. Your choice grants bonuses at levels 5, 9, and 15.

ARTIFICER FEATS
At 1st level and every even numbered after that, you gain an artificer class feat.

SKILL FEATS
At level 2 and every 2 after that, you gain a skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the corresponding skill to select that feat.

GENERAL FEATS
At level 3 and every 4 after that, you gain a general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.

SKILL INCREASES
At level 3 and every 2 after that, you gain a skill increase. You can use this to either increase your proficiency in an untrained skill to trained, or increase one skill you’re already trained in to expert.
-At level 7 you can increase a skill you’re an expert in to master, and at 15 you can then increase a rank to legendary if you’re a master.



ABILITY BOOSTS
At level 5 and every 5 after that, you increase four different ability scores. You can increase a score to above 18. However the boost only increases by 1 if the ability is 18 or above.

ANCESTRY FEATS
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain another feat at level 5, and every 4 after that. List of ancestry feats are found in Chapter 2 in your ancestry’s entry.

SPECIALTY FEATS	
Armorer – Increase all armor proficiencies by 1 level.
Level 5 armorer feature – 
Custom Dampening -	You have advantage on Stealth checks, if your armor would normally impose disadvantage the affects cancel each other out.

Extra Attack – You can attack twice, rather than once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

Level 9 armorer feature -

Armor modification – You modify your armor to better suit your movements. Add 2 your AC

Level 15 armorer feature –
Armor  Mastery – add an additional level to each of your armor proficiencies.
Legendary Armorsmith – If you possess a Legendary Armor Proficiency ie. Light whenever you don armor that you have crafted you gain the Legendary Proficiency for that armor type.
Blacksmith – add 1 proficiency level to Simple and Martial Melee Weapons
Level 5 blacksmith feature - 

Enhanced Weapons - +1 attack and damage rolls. Increases to +2 at level 10.

Extra Attack – You can attack twice, rather than once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

Level 9 blacksmith feature - 

Weapons expert – add 1 proficiency level to Simple and Martial Melee Weapons

Level 15 blacksmith feature – 
Enchant Weapons – Through experiments with arcane arts you have learned how to enchant your weaponry. All weapons you use count as magical.
Legendary Blacksmith – If you posses a Legendary Weapon Proficiency ie. Daggers whenever you use a weapon that you have crafted you gain the Legendary Proficiency for that weapon.

Artillerist – add 1 proficiency level simple and martial ranged weapons

